Thor and Loki
The myths told about Norse Mythology are all so interesting, and have lots of intriguing myths and stories that people love or enjoy. The characters that are probably the most known is the almighty, thunder god, Thor, and trickster frost giant, Loki. Thor and Loki are both 2 powerful people who are in lots of the Norse Mythology myths. Loki is a clever, trickster who is known for trouble, and not many gods enjoy his presents. Thor on the other hand is a well respected warrior who controls lightning. Even though these 2 are very different, they’re actually very much the same.

Thor and Loki are similar in the ways that they’re both great, strong warriors and they don’t like each other; however they’re different in the ways that one of them is a trickster and one is a great hero, and one is a protector and one is a traitor.

Loki and Thor are similar because they are both powerful people. Thor proves that he is powerful when he defeats giants and other foes of the gods. In the story “Loki and the Builder” by Oracle Think Quest, Loki tricks a giant into building a wall for the gods, but when the giant finds out it is a trick the giant gets enraged and tries to kill the gods. “The gods called on Thor, the god of thunder and lightning. With his mighty hammer, Miollnir, Thor struck the giant with a thunderclap on his head.” (Oracle, Viking, Myths, Loki) states that the gods needed someone powerful to defeat the giant and called on Thor. Therefore, because the gods called for Thor to defeat the giant and Thor does defeat the giant, he is a powerful person.

Like Thor, Loki is powerful when he gets an army of the dead. In the story of Ragnarok, Loki breaks free from his chains (his punishment for killing the god Balder), and gets a ship and army of the dead to seek revenge on the gods. “It will start with a trembling in the earth, with that first tremble Loki shall break free of his bonds, and lead the undead in a battle upon a ship made of dead men's nails against the gods themselves.” (Oracle, Viking, Myth, Ragnarok) says that Loki could do many stuff with his powers just like Thor. This clearly illustrates that Loki is great, strong person.
In conclusion, Loki and Thor are similar because they are both great and powerful people.

Thor and Loki are similar because they don’t like each other. Loki proves that he doesn’t like Thor when he makes fun of him. “At this moment Thor came in. Loki threw at him, too, then fled.” (Evans and Millard 34) states that Loki would make fun of Thor. Therefore, because Loki does taunt Thor, he doesn’t like Thor. Like Loki, Thor does not like Loki when Thor threatens Loki with his hammer, Miollnir. In the story “Thor in the land of the Giants” by Oracle Think Quest Thor and Loki travel to land of the Giants, and compete with some Giants, but lose in every competition." Like I told you Thor," said Loki with a grin, "The cunning shall always defeat the strong."
"I'd like to see you tell that to my hammer." growled Thor. (Oracle, Viking, Myth, Thor)
This clearly illustrates that Thor didn’t like to tolerate Loki. In conclusion, Thor and Loki are similar because they don’t like one another.

Loki and Thor are different because one of them is a hero and the other is a trickster. Loki proves that he is a trickster when he uses his trickiness for mischief. In the story “The Death of Balder” by Cheryl Evans and Anne Millard, Loki uses his cleverness and gives his blind brother, Hod, a deadly plant that makes Hod kill his brother, Balder. “Hod was delighted. Loki gave him the mistletoe dart and guided his aim. It pierced Balder’s heart and he fell dead.” (Evans and Millard 37) states that Loki is a trickster for tricking Hod into killing Balder. Therefore, because Loki kills Balder with his trickery and cleverness, he is a trickster. Thor, is a strong hero since he uses his strength and power to defeat bad things. In the story of “Ragnarok” by Oracle Think Quest, Thor kills the Midgard Serpent (the son of Loki) to save Asgard in the other 8 worlds only to die from the beasts poison. “Thor kills the Midgard Serpent but before he takes nine paces he shall die from the serpent’s poison.” (Oracle, Viking, Myth, Ragnarok) states that Thor even gave his life to try and save the 9 worlds. This clearly illustrates that Thor is a hero. In conclusion, Thor and Loki are different because one of them is a hero and one of them is a trickster.

Loki and Thor are also different because one of them is a traitor and one of them is a protector. Thor proves that he is a protector when he tries to save the nine worlds in Ragnarok. In the story of Ragnarok the nine worlds are attacked evil forces who try to destroy the gods, Thor protects the worlds and fights for his life.” As Odin rides into battle challenging Fenrir, the wolf swallows him whole, Thor battling the fearsome Midgard Serpent is unable to help... Thor kills the Midgard Serpent but before he takes nine paces he shall die from the serpents poison.” (Oracle, Viking, Myth, Ragnarok) states that Thor tried to protect Odin but couldn’t. Therefore, because Thor tried to protect Odin and the nine worlds, he is a protector. Unlike Thor, Loki is a traitor when he fights against the gods. Also in the story of Ragnarok, Loki turns against the gods and tries to defeat them. “...with that first tremble Loki shall break free of his bonds, and lead the undead in a battle upon a ship made of dead men's nails against the gods themselves.’’ (Oracle, Viking, Myths, Ragnarok) This clearly illustrates that Loki turns against the gods and Asgard and is traitor. In conclusion, Thor and Loki are different because one of them is a traitor and one of them is a protector.

Thor and Loki are very similar. They’re in some ways different, but in many ways, as stated above, similar. They are both well known figures in the Norse (Viking) Mythology, and are both good at what they do. Thor and Loki are very different, in the sense that one is a hero and one is a trickster, and that one is a protector and one is a traitor. Other than that they are very similar, because they don’t like one another and because the are both great, and powerful people. In conclusion, Thor and Loki are similar in the ways that they’re both great, strong warriors and they don’t like each other; however they’re different in the ways that one of them is a trickster and one of them is a trickster and one is a great hero, and one is a protector and one is a traitor.